Twitter_hidden_topics
=====================

This work will model and analyze Twitter topics around the Swedish political debates that happened on 12th of June 2013 and 6th of October 2013 using do- main specific topic modeling methods. The goal is to build a models that gives an overview about Twitter activities connected to the political debates. Both political debates have 6 topics that were discussed by the politicians: health- care, schooling, crime, work & tax and immigration. The built models will find out if these topics are represented in Twitter and to what extend, what other topic, connected to the political debate, are appearing in Twitter, how do the political debate topics compare in the two debates, how much do the political officials take part in tweeting about the political debate topics. The models will be built and evaluated manually and automatically.

Topic models will be built for answering the questions above. Two different type of models will be build based on unsupervised and semisupervised approaches.
LDA method was chosen as the unsupervised model and a tf-idf based topic creation that introduces the domain knowledge using sparse classification of documents.
Twitter is challenging for information retrieval because of various reasons. First of all mostly all natural language techniques fail because of grammatically in- correct text, numerous abbreviations and slang language. Compared to blogs and news media tweets do not have clearly defined context, since each tweet is only 140 characters long. Some context can be extracted from the retweets and replies connected to that tweet, hashtags used in the tweet and the network of users subscriptions, but that is not so easy to do and requires case to case handling. One last difficulty in using natural language tools on Twitter data analysis is how Twitter is used in different cultures.
There has been various research about extracting knowledge from tweets cre- ated in English. The methods used on english tweets do not always generalize to other languages so well, that is why this work focuses on mining topic knowledge in Swedish language. Furthermore general methods might not be a good fit for modeling domain specific topics, since its hard to include the domain knowledge in the models. Some reasons are that language comes with a social culture, people might interact with Twitter in a different way or have different attitude towards politics.
This work will include the domain knowledge to the models and evaluate the results with the help of domain experts from The University of Gothenburg, Department of Political Science.

